Add Documentation after 0.3.0 release (#94)
AbsaOSS/hermes: _docs/0.3/components.md

---
layout: docs
title: Components
version: '0.3'
categories:
    - '0.3'
redirect_from: /docs/components
---

#### Table of contents

- [Table of contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Dataset Comparison](#dataset-comparison)
- [Info File Comparison](#info-file-comparison)
- [E2E Runner](#e2e-runner)

Each of the components released by *Hermes* is a command line tool. All are `.jar` files.

#### Dataset Comparison

> General tool for data set comparison. Can be used a spark job or a library. For the library-like usage check method `execute` and `compare` in `DatasetComparisonJob` class in `za.co.absa.hermes.datasetComparison` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
General tool for data set comparison. Can be used as a spark job or a library. For the library-like usage, check methods `execute` and `compare` in `DatasetComparisonJob` class in `za.co.absa.hermes.datasetComparison` package.
```
or perhaps even
```suggestion
General tool for data set comparison. Can be used as a spark job or a library. For the library-like usage, use methods `za.co.absa.hermes.datasetComparison.DatasetComparisonJob.{execute, compare}`.
```

> If used as a library just provide 2 dataframes for comparison and optionaly a set of unique keys and a schema.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If used as a library, just provide 2 dataframes for comparison and optionaly a set of unique keys and a schema.
```

Author: Fixed

> If used as a library you just provide 2 dataframes for comparison and optionall set of unique keys and schema.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If used as a library just provide 2 dataframes for comparison and optionaly a set of unique keys and a schema.
```
Regarding the removal of _you_: The previous sentence is written in imperative mood. Here you used personal mood. Reads little disjoint.

> If used as a library you just provide 2 dataframes for comparison and optionall set of unique keys and schema.

Reviewer 3: A one/few words explanation what is the purpose of the unique keys and particularly of the schema (eg. schema of fields to take into account).
Btw are they _unique keys_, or _field names of a unique key_? Also key you specify multiple keys, or just multiple fields?

[More...]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/{{ page.version }}/components/dataset-comparison)

***

#### Info File Comparison

> A simple comparison tool for [Atum][gh-atum]'s _INFO file. Work on local FS and Hadoop.

Reviewer: Forgive my ignorance, but does the `[Atum][gh-atum]` work?

```suggestion
A simple comparison tool for [Atum][gh-atum]'s _INFO file. It works on local FS and Hadoop FS.
```

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't it be _INFO files? (with S)

***

#### E2E Runner

> E2E Runner is a tool that runs end to end tests based on the JSON input file. E2R Runner has a **plugin architecture** so the type of test depends on the plugins loaded. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
E2E Runner is a tool that runs end-to-end tests based on the JSON input file. E2R Runner has a **plugin architecture** so the type of test depends on the plugins loaded. 
```

Built in Plugins are
- Bash command plugin
- Dataset Comparison plugin

> - Info File Comaprison plugin

Reviewer: _Built-in_.
The capitalization seems inconsistent.

Reviewer 3: I would say: _Existing built-in plugins are:_
Also Comaprison  -> C/comparison

Author: Fixed

- [Info File Comparison](#info-file-comparison)
- [E2E Runner](#e2e-runner)

Each of the components released by *Hermes* is a command-line tool. All are `.jar` files.

#### Dataset Comparison

General tool for data set comparison. It can be used as a spark job or a library. For the library-like usage check method `execute` and `compare` in `DatasetComparisonJob` class in `za.co.absa.hermes.datasetComparison` package.

If used as a library, you just provide 2 DataFrames for comparison and an optional set of unique keys and schema.

[More...]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/{{ page.version }}/components/dataset-comparison)

***

#### Info File Comparison

A simple comparison tool for [Atum][gh-atum]'s _INFO file. It works on local FS and Hadoop FS.

***

#### E2E Runner

E2E Runner is a tool that runs end-to-end tests based on the JSON input file. E2R Runner has a **plugin architecture** so the type of test depends on the plugins loaded. 

Existing built-in plugins are:
- Bash command plugin
- Dataset comparison plugin

> - Info File comparison plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Info file comparison plugin
```
